title: Insomnia
author: Carter Allen
date: 2009/02/23



I can't sleep. It's 2:37 AM. Fun!

I was ready to go to bed at 12:30, so I sat there in bed for a while, staring at the ceiling, and my cat. Eventually I gave up and watched some TV for a while. I spent half of the time in front of the TV staring at my cat, because he was just being weird. But I was starting to feel relaxed, and ready to go to sleep. So I went back into my bed, and tried to sleep again. Failure. So now I'm back at my computer, as usual. Insomnia is shit, seriously. It'd be kinda nice if I was actually productive at this time of night/morning. And yet, I'm really not. So here I am, writing, when I could/should be sleeping. I <em>wish</em> I was sleeping. I really do. Well, my wishes never come true anyway, just add this one to the list.

What to write about, what to write about... is always good for a conversation topic. We're working on 3 projects right now. I have control over only one of them, but that's okay. The first is Pasta, a synchronized pastebin and image hosting service, with a companion application. It's pretty cool, I will admit. Preston is in charge of that one. Why? Because I just don't have enough time for it. The next project is Kameleon 2, as always. Goddamnit, that project just will never die. It's been a WIP since...what...September? Yeah, that's it. God. Zach is in charge of that one. And then the last one is xMod 2...it's looking like it might be pretty cool. An extensible system utility and preference pane, with scheduling abilities. Good, yes? Well, I'm pretty much stuck on the current problem of writing a custom class to display the available preferences in a list. If it ever works out, it'd be pretty cool. But until I can figure out Quartz rendering and how to subclass NSView, I'm pretty much at a standstill.

That's all that's interesting in  land I guess. Oh, well, the new web site is pretty cool (<a href="http://opt-6.com" target="_blank">www.opt-6.com</a>), thank you Wil Nichols for the kickass design. Of course, there are a few finishing touches and stuff to do, but it's pretty much there. 

Hmm...what else is there to write about? The academy awards were tonight, no real surprises. Sean Penn won over Frank Langella, which was kind of disappointing to me, but oh well. And Kate Winslet won for best actress, as we all knew she would. Though apparently, they had trouble finding any footage of her in The Reader where she actually had clothes on. Seriously, they overdid the nudity bit. Especially considering how not-very-attractive she is. That's just my opinion of course. And then Slumdog Millionaire won best picture, of course. I was pulling for Frost/Nixon, but I really loved both. Yeah, that's about it.

I'll go stare at the ceiling some more. Bye now.
